---
layout: post
title: Research Software Engineering - A new academic career pathway
subtitle: upcoming lecture talks by prominent figures in research
date: 2018-12-18
author: Kheeran Naidu
permalink: /:year/:month/:day/:title.html
---

“Researchers, funders and universities now recognise that UK research depends onsoftware.  92% of researchers depend on software to conduct and analyse their research.  56% ofresearchers develop their own research software.  However, 71% of researchers have no formaltraining in software development.  This has lead to a crisis of reproducibility in many fields,as it is challenging (if not impossible) for many pieces of research or analysis software to runon anything other than the laptops of the original researcher.  The career of Research SoftwareEngineering has been created to help address this problem.  Research Software Engineers haveexperience and training in both software engineering and domain research.  They help ensurethat  software  is  written  to  be  portable  and  reproducible,  enabling  software  to  be  sustainedbetween projects and shared with the wider academic and industrial community.  In this talkI will discuss what Research Software Engineers do, the growth of RSE groups in universitiesacross the country,  and provide some examples of why it is so important to change researchculture so that researchers learn and adopt core software engineering best practice (e.g.  versioncontrol and testing).”  - Dr.  Christopher Woods


### Details
Lecturer:  Dr.  Christopher Woods
Date:  18/12/18
Time:  1-2pm
Room:  Queens 1.18


### Summary
The lecturer briefly (in the 1 hour that we had the room for) described and explained to us thecurrent landscape of the research world.  In his analysis he pointed out a huge shortcoming inthe way in which research has been conducted, the main one being non-reproducible results fromprogrammes developed by researchers.  For those interested in Research Software Engineering,this was a good overview of what this new career pathway entails, and for others, it showed afully recognised support academic for researchers who are unfamiliar with programming.

The event was a successful one.  Approx 20-30 students attended and there was good interactionwith  the  lecturer  before  and  after  the  event.   Even  though  we  didn’t  have  the  budget  forfood/drinks  after  the  event  (which  would  have  increased  the  turnout),  it  was  excellent  thatthere  were  many  students  interested  in  Research  Software  Engineering  and  the  implicationsthis new career has in research.
